Friends here or concept is what is work DAR instruction in Docker file?
Basically it is for working directory.
Now let me go with that.
See, the VaR instruction is used to
define the default working there three of your Docker image.
Anyway, whatever you have default values with your Docker image,
same values you will get in your container whenever,
if you launch your container using that image.
Now, to get more idea about work directly, work BAR,
let me login into,
let me enter into one of our previously launched container, let's say container.
So simply Docker e FCC hyphen IT, that container.
After entering into your container,
immediately simply run PWD.
Then what you are getting slash.
So now for this container slashes the default working that at p,
because after entering into your container,
you are getting the path as slash,
that is the default working directly.
So same thing you have in your image.
That's why you're getting in your container.
Because from that image only you cratered container.
Now suppose instead of slash,
I want to take some different working directly.
Let say suppose we are using this containers to run Flask applications.
Now whenever, if I enter into my container than I hoped to get working
there as let say some Python flask or some Flask application part.
So how we can do that simply in your Docker file,
you have to modify that and you need to rebuild your image.
Let me do that.
C, be clear.
You are getting in our registering container default working directory as slash.
That means our base image default working directory is defined as a slash.
Now I want to modify that.
Yes, you can modify that.
Work.
Var, let's say from default location Flask app.
That is the path I want.
Ok.
Actually we need to modify the below lines as well, but we will see that.
So first let me build image.
So as of now we how images as in this way.
Let me Docker build hyphen T.
Now, Washington as we three.
So image has been created and I'll see that images.
And these are the two running containers on,
on my Docker host 5 thousand and age range 0 ports are already in use.
Now what I will do is using this latest image,
I will create a container C,
that Docker run hyphen IT, hyphen D.
Then let's say iPhone, iPhone name, work,
DIR, usage, then ports.
So what I will do is on my Docker host,
I will take 6 thousand port and I will map that with 5 thousand in my Docker container,
then image as this one.
See that?
So docker ps.
No, we created a container but it is not displaying here.
Now let me see that in the exited container list.
Yes, it is there.
So it is exited with some error code.
Actually the reason for that is,
well, let me Doc open Docker file.
And here I will explain.
See previously we thought this line the default working directory slash.
That's why while running this Python command, I mean,
with respect to your app.js,
non-incremental slash app PY.
But no, you modified your default working directory into slashed Flask app,
mature app.use away, not in this location,
it is there in slash.
That's why you need to write here slash.
So even though you are taking what library as slash Flask app,
still you're copying your files into root level,
I mean slash app.use way.
So in this location slash location or how app.js,
that's why here I need to mention slash.
Suppose if you don't mention slash year here and a here,
then this file will be copied into this location.
Because once if you define work directly,
then offer that whatever the instructions we are getting like run copy,
add entry point command.
For all those commands,
your Docker will treat location as this one.
Anyway, I will show you that.
Now let me save it and let me rebuild our Docker image.
Now I am dealing with Washington as let's
say we For it has been created.
So images, docker, ps,
iPhone q, sorry, hyphen.
A. So what I will do is I will remove
our exited container on Docker images.
Docker ps now Docker run hyphen IT,
hyphen v, let's say name as WordNet tree.
You say.
Then Let's say 6 thousand port on my Docker host,
I want to map with 5 thousand.
Then I want to use this latest image.
Now see docker ps is working perfectly these up and running.
Now, let me enter into a container.
And after entering into your container,
immediately see that you are in slash Flask app because we defined that directory.
Right? And so I told that once if you define the word what their tea,
then they run copy,
add entry point and command instructions.
Follow the work directory instruction,
what it means. Let me show you that.
See, once we if we define a work directly after that, whenever, I mean,
if you are using copy or entry point command,
add instructions or RUN instruction,
all those instructions we treat the present working directory in your image as this one.
That's why suppose if I don't mention complete path here and here,
then your app.js file will copy into this location B to this name.
And your Python three,
we'll run this app dot PY bike concerning
current working directory or present working directory as this one.
That is the meaning of work mandatory.
So if you don't want to copy your app.js into this work that it,
then you ought to mention complete path.
If you don't mention any pattern,
simply if you mentioned a path and file name here,
then from our docker host,
whatever the file we are copying,
that file content will copy into this file.
But the file will be created in this word marital location.
That's it.
Now let me save it.
And let me rebuild our image by taking v phi version.
Fine. Now, the occur images and let's say docker ps c,
why I'm running docker ps means I want to know which ports are used on my Docker host.
Actually now I am going to create a new container with the,
let's say work directory.
You say two.
Then ports.
So already six thousand and five thousand,
eight hundred zero ports are huge on my Docker host and
80 port is already used on my Docker goes to because I am running unix services as well.
So what I will do is I will take 8 thousand port.
Then inside of my container anyway,
I will get my Flask application port has 5 thousand.
Now let me take, let us the container and we launch today container.
So docker, ps c,
Just now we launched this container.
So enter into that container,
Docker EXE, you see, hyphen IT back.
Now by default, you anyway,
you will get your work that it trusts.
Flask, App, Engine, app slash because that's what we mentioned in our docker file.
And if you run ls command c, that add dot p,
y is there here only, not anymore route.
So here we are not having, right?
So that is the uses of your work that at three.
So be clear.
Once if you define your work directory,
then after that in your remaining instructions,
if you don't mention complete path,
then you what Docker will treat the present working directory as this work matter tree.
And if you mentioned complete path wherever you need,
then that path only it will take if you don't mention complete path,
then only it will take work directory path as
the default path for your remaining instructions.
I mean, not all only for R1, copy,
add, entry point and command instructions.
Okay?
Okay guys, this is the simple uses of your work directory.
And actually we have a command called docker inspect.
Using that command, we can verify the working directory of your container or image.
Let me show you that very simple.
Let me list containers.
See this container we launched or using this image.
Now let me run simply docker,
inspect your image ID.
Now you are going to get a lot of parameters here.
As of now, suppose we need working directory and see that there is a working directory.
This is the default working directory for
this Docker image are able to see entry point as well.
Now let me execute it for our container as well.
So simply docker ps certainly take container ID.
So docker, inspect container.
Just scroll up somewhere.
You will see working laboratory and also entry point as well.
So docker inspect command is very useful to see the list of
parameters about Dewar container or you are image.
Okay, fine.
And we can also define multiple working directories.
But as of now, I don't want to make you confuse.
But whenever situation comes at the time,
I will use multiple times working directories.
Okay.
Okay, guys, thank you for watching this video.